# Technical Approach     The current home-grown system was developed in Microsoft **Access**(tm).  We have decided to convert that system _as-is_ into **PostgreSQL** as a first step.   We then run our **python**-based conversion scripts from there,  taking advantage of the [ArchivesSnake](https://github.com/archivesspace-labs/ArchivesSnake/) package that uses the ArchivesSpace API.## Converting the database to PostgreSQLWe have documented the  [steps for converting from the **Access** database to **PostgreSQL**](db_conversion.md).## Creating data crosswalksBecause the structure of the home-grown database is quite different from that of ArchivesSpace, we are creating a separate database that maps data in the original system with analogous data in ArchivesSpace.An immediate example is the controlled value lists of ArchivesSpace; _e.g._ for the _Linked Agent Archival Record Relators_ list in ArchivesSpace, we need to identify mapping from the **tblLookupValues** for "Creator Type" with the appropriate **enum** in the list.Further, as we develop processing of disparate parts of the archive, such as _subjects_, we want to keep track of the analogous IDs in ArchivesSpace as we associate those with other parts, such as _resources_, to reduce lookup speeds.We have created a **Crosswalk** database for this purpose, using [SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/index.html), which is available with the Python installation.### Crosswalk databaseCurrently this database contains only the **Crosswalk** table:|  Column | Data Type | comment || :--------- | :---------- | :---------- || id | integer | || orig_table | text | 'enums' for enumerator; otherwise the Access table name || orig_id | text | the ID in the originating table || value | text | the text value in the originating table || aspace_id | text | for enumerators, the enum value; otherwise the full ArchivesSpace URL |All interactions with the database are managed by the  **Crosswalk** class defined in [crosswalk.py](../src/archivesspace_jsonmodel_converter/crosswalker.py)## Individual Conversions### Enumerations (_tblLookupValues)_Most of the values in  **tblLookupValues** will just be used as free text within the conversion, if at all.  For example, "Cultural Affiliation" values will be entered as part of a note on the Resource or Accession.  Others may require expanding the enumeration values in ArchivesSpace. There are some lookup types, however, that just need "translation" into already-defined ArchivesSpace controlled value lists.  For these last types, a [values](../values2enums.csv) spreadsheet in has been created, which is processed by [enumerations.py](../src/archivesspace_jsonmodel_converter/enumerations.py)### SubjectsThree Access tables are processed to be converted into ArchivesSpace subjects: **tblLcshs**, **tblGeoPlaces**, and **tblCreatorPlaces**.  The conversion is handled in [subjects.py](../src/archivesspace_jsonmodel_converter/subjects.py).### AgentsCreators do not have their own table in the Access database.  We are using the **tblcreator/place** table, filtering by looking up the item_id in **tbleItems**, then looking for _dept_code_id == 48_.Determining whether the creator name to be processed falls into the category of _person_, _corporate_, or _family_ requires, among other things, checking the **enum** crosswalk with the _creator_type_.### Resources
